as the prophets, and they didn't want
anything preventable. And on the one hand, they
were pressuring him to publish very esoteric
plans for the Eastern European League, and I
remember some of those people, Eastern Europe
specialists, wanting their things published,
and they were the character that they were lucky if
they sold it. So on the one hand, he was impressed to
publish things of that ilk, and on the other being
sharply criticized for not breaking any revenue.
And it was just an
implausible situation. Now, as far as you had, had
Frank ever given any information to you that, that
he received from you? No. No, this was a bolt out of
the blue. The unfortunate impression is they
always believed over UT Press, and of course were
very angry, resentful. They believed that it had
been submitted at UT Press and Frank had just
popped it and taken it that way to end it with him,
and that's not true. I've told you the
circumstances, but I had some of them
subsequently make remarks to me about that. Yeah,
they felt it had been stolen from them. Well, I know
very well, and I think Frank Fowler knew well too,
although he had a very glowing readership for it
from Newcomb here, who he sent it to. and he was
enthused about it, that the Action Faculty
Committee was part of it. That's right. That's
right. Yeah, I really think the Texas press kind of
shot themselves in the foot. Oh, they did? That's
our view. And that was greatly, you know,
facilitated things that hit in. I mean, if we were
able to pick up a list, that would have been a Texas
ship. Yep. We see it as more of a Texas default. and
now the funny thing is that they have they are
scrambling that's good that's this woman from
princeton has come in yeah But
there was very great apprehension
that she might take them back down that path. They
had been coming back somewhat in regional
history. they were afraid
that this
crazy woman would take them back down the trail and
would already have destroyed the press. And she's
not doing anything. So that's what we're doing.
I'm glad, because there's enough going on to keep
more people pressing. Let me pause it. So we should
probably take this way off the track. But anyway,
there were problems here, and I think the decision
to go was a sudden decision to go there. Well, he
recognized an impossible situation when he saw
it, which I think is what Robert Gerdahl has
recently done. You know, by Gerdahl, it's a
different set of problems. But, you know, there's
no use banging your head. And one of the very
impressive things about that was about how much he
cared. He cared about
authors. And he took such very good care of them.
And he came over to see me. I had such trust in Frank.
I didn't even have a lawyer
look at him. I
have profited ever since I survived. He says, no,
you'll notice an unusual name. He says, it's a
brief statement. And so I took special good care of
my name, saving it for myself. But at any rate, he
said, you will notice that the copywriter's name
is in your name. And he says, most publishers get it
in their name. And he said, I think that is
unintentional and that we will alter it. should
ever be put up with that. Oh, yes. I subsequently
have published with
OU Press. I had something coming
up that was much more suitable for them than for the
direction that AM Press was thinking. And the
first contract I got, the copyright would be in
their name, and I wrote back and asked to have it
changed. And
John Drake was very surprised. He says this is
unusual, but I don't think it's good. And it's
unusual to have an open view of the difference. It
has made a lot of difference to me, because I think
that storms would be dead if I hadn't been there.
Yeah, because the direction of the press has
changed,
you know, three times. And nothing is correct. And
you can't count
on successors to deliver on policies that were
made in good faith. And so, anyhow, I own this. And I
owe that to Christ. And then the people that he
coaxed along and took care of. Buck, you
mentioned. Oh, yeah. And I can remember staying at
their house, and Buck was a long-time guest over at
that wonderful old house. It kind of goes very
similar. That was one of my favorite things about
that whole experience with Buck. And then he,
Frank, the whole time he was here, and that was 25
years ago, nursed along Edgar Kincaid to get that
massive bird book out. And Edgar
was
as quirky as any human
being on the face of the earth. And, uh, any other
fellows you've heard of him? Sure. And Frank
nurtured him along, and it was the last thing
published that you could ask a book about him. And
it was one of the first projects he's done for a
hundred years. So he had enormous patience and
persistence. And there was a good range of his
contents. Yeah.
The Aggies really turned up. I mean, Frank Marvel
was there, too. But, you know, these people think
this isn't their book. Yes. And I didn't know. I'm
not sure the faculty didn't have that kind of
interest. But one of the students did. This wasn't
their book. Right. Yes, he was, he taught it. And,
of course, he could fit right in to that. That Aggie
party scene. Yeah, that's right. In fact,
Rosemary mentioned that. She said, you know,
we had such a tiny kitchen and we had to put in the
parts. Yes. And she said one day, in fact, before
the fire burned the thing up, they put in a new
kitchen. Uh-huh. And, you know, I have a little
memory of that. And
part of that was his you know his entrepreneurial
sense but part of it was that was genuine that was
yeah it was that was the way frank was that's right
and my understanding is of course the last stream
was always out of their house and that they they
entertained a great deal in fact i think on the food
kind of sustained that too
you know Let me ask you a very broad question about
presses in Texas. Where does A&M fit? Where does
Texas fit? Have you ever thought to think about a
New York press concept? Where are they? I don't
know. I've pondered that myself. You know,
everything is always in such blocks. that I really
don't know. I don't think that it's very
predictable. I don't know whether the era
of being a strong publisher is over. The era in
which my perceptions were shaped was the era of
Wardlaw and Taxes not being able to do anything. I
wouldn't have published the Boston Bill because I
knew too much about how many communities we
developed. Is that right? And I just, you know, the
people who knew I was trying to get that published
were just amazed that I wouldn't. I wouldn't
submit it to a book club. I didn't trust Savoy. I
knew Savoy. Savoy did some wonderful things. He
also did some horrible things to authors. Some of
them have been friends of mine. In fact, one of them
was a professor from the department I was working
in. He wrote a book in the press there. And, of
course, I had had that unasked-for
letter
from Savoy telling me what to do with that to make it
into a book, and the book came out. But anyhow, I'm
losing my dreadful eye here. So that's why I would
not have published with him then, but I finally did
publish with him. uh
i i had to be assured that the gray index was on the
document last year uh was not still called because
that would have been bad news on the contrary I
don't think anyone
knows where those came from. And I was
comfortable, when, when Lord Lyman refused to
honor the promise that Franklin was going to knock
on the paperback, and I insisted that the rise be
so, I suggested that they be sold to Bransford.
Because, yeah, that list made sense, and because
they, Gilbert, had been raised by Frank in the
publishing business. And so, and of course, Frank
was just crushed when they refused to open the
paper as a successor to it. Yeah, I know. Yeah, I
have that part of the point. And he was frightfully
upset that they didn't do that. But of course, they
wanted to wipe out all traces of Ward Lawism. And it
was much healthier for Dave to go up there and so I
got that sold to Nebraska and it fared very well as
long as Dave was there. But Dave went. He got an
offer he couldn't refuse to sell. And authors who
had
been very happy with the work today were
subsequently not as happy. But others,
you know, have been very happy. So, I don't know. I
think it's all in such turmoil. And they all work
under such difficulties. Yes, they do. That's
right.
But in a way,
it always is. Is Frank back down there? Yeah.
retired oh that's right well that was his last job
i've forgotten you know he he did some moving
around and you're talking about you know what's
going to happen to books you know That's
about as
far as we've been. At the Texas A&M School of Law
meeting last month, I had a chance to sit next to
David Gracie at the fellows meeting. And Gracie,
who is a professor at my mother's program, and has,
until recently, been a social worker, was quite
upset about a conversation that he had And the
Thursday night reception was Senator Sibley. And
you would think that Marilyn Sibley's son would
have been raised in the past, but I'm just messing
with you. And Senator Sibley, whom I admire, I
think he's one of the most positive. I don't know
about her, no. Well, a lot of the best things that
get done over in the legislature have been granted
David Sibley. And I don't often get excited about
Republicans, but I would marry him because I like
his mother so much. But anyhow, as I said, David
Sidney was talking about they weren't going to
need to buy books. And they weren't going to need to
sort out books and decide what to keep and what not
to. Just put it all on the table. And we're not going
to have to buy it. a book for every campus of the
university. We'll all just buy one book for all
these campuses and put it on the wall. Well, David
has just... I haven't heard that one. Well, I hope
that somebody can calm him down. If he finds out the
expense of doing that, and then what it will cost
everybody to download what they need, I
don't know whether it
would be useful to you